happy new year tomorrow is the first day
of 2021
and i'm taking a moment to make a top 10
list
with a purpose we're talking about the
top 10 videos on my channel
in the year 2020 not to celebrate
certainly not to uh reflect on the
success
or the failure of my channel but to
basically
underscore the point that if you want to
come on the internet and make meaningful
content
you can't let your decisions be shaped
by the size of the audience you reach
you can't let
your measure of success or failure be
the number of viewers
per video for those of you who are not
regular viewers in my channel you may
find the reflections here
a little bit bewildering but what i try
to do
is make content that's meaningful for me
and is meaningful for a particular
audience that may be quite different
from one video to the next so to give an
example
if i'm making content about learning
chinese
obviously i'm imagining an audience of
people who are themselves also trying to
learn chinese
or in some cases people who are
considering their options
before making the commitment to learn
chinese just lately i've actually gotten
quite a lot of fan mail
from those people from people who are
saying well they're thinking about
really committing a few years their life
to learning chinese
and they're watching my videos before
before making that decision
if i'm making videos about politics of
making videos about history philosophy
each one of these has a different
imaginary audience
for whom it's ideal but ultimately you
know i have to think about myself
i have to think about my own daughter my
own hypothetical grandkids in the future
or something
watching this many years from now i have
to have a long-term view
of the short-term creative challenge of
making youtube videos
and i wish i could tell you that i was
one of a whole generation of people
making content in this way you know
making videos that we really think are
meaningful that really matter
long term but i'm all alone out here on
youtube i don't have colleagues i don't
have contemporaries
i don't have friends on the platform
that's why there are so few videos where
i'm collaborating
with other youtubers or even where i'm
clashing with other youtubers and say
the last
the last two years it's been a very
lonely
road to get on but for those of you who
are
regular viewers of my channel it will be
immediately obvious to you
that this set of top 10 videos these are
by no means
the most meaningful videos on my channel
and they're also not even videos that
succeeded
in reaching their intended audience
right so number 10
on this list is titled is laoshu's
language
number 10 in the list is titled is
laoshu's language learning method
a scam uh and as you might survive the
answer is
yes so
right now i'm doing uh i'll just list a
few
i got thomas going on sinhala
um arabic sudanese arabic
russian pashto
um bosnian
swedish
uh armenian
hindi uh
what was what's another one i'm doing
don't
and uh syrian so it's quite a bit of
them there's a lot of them going on
right now
but uh now that reached
about 6 000 viewers in a year
but if you just look at the thumbs up to
thumbs down ratio
you can see it's reaching the wrong
audience
you can also compare this to the last
several years
of videos i've made about this sort of
question looking at polyglots and the
advice they give on language learning
or my own videos about how to learn
chinese
in other languages and you can see i'm
utterly failing
to reach that audience so it's quite
likely this link was just shared by
fans of laoshu coming to to give it the
thumbs down
i think it's a meaningful video as with
all these things i'm motivated really by
the content of what i have to say
for me it's rewarding to go back and
listen to that now it's still
interesting it still matters there's
still practical
advice that'll be useful for the right
people if they're the ones clicking on
it and again i do get
fan mail for this type of video and for
this video
in particular but to look at this as a
success
it's very difficult in many ways really
this is a further example of
failure number nine another example of a
video that has
far more thumbs down than thumbs up
shane dawson
versus brie estrik this is not a shallow
gossip video this is a video with a
really meaningful point to make
and i still stand by it and i still
enjoy
listening to it today five years from
now when i've completely forgotten about
what the controversy is
between shane dawson and breastfeed i'll
still think this is a meaningful and
worthwhile video
however even though this reached a
reasonable number of viewers
it very much reached the wrong audience
and obviously those 6 000 people have
not become
regular viewers of my channel probably
none of them even watched
one other video on my channel before
giving it the thumbs down and moving on
because this isn't the kind of shallow
snap judgment that they were looking for
at that time especially
all of the audience was looking for was
harsh moral condemnation
uh directed towards shane dawson and
incidentally that's what
brie estrig offered by the way if you
check brie estrix youtube channel
she's even less successful than i am now
but
she wrote a wave of controversy at that
time
by indicting and condemning her former
friend shane dawson someone who actually
she could feel some gratitude towards
for creating
her relatively long-lived career
another example the same phenomenon
jordan peterson's brain damage
now this is a meaningful video talking
about jordan peterson's history with
drug addiction and um
mental health treatment of various kinds
and uh you know it's not a joke
these drugs cause brain damage and
jordan peterson is now
struggling with the consequences of bad
choices he made in life
and of course part of what makes that so
remarkable is that he had a phd
in precisely this field many people were
victims of uh
you know psychiatric treatment in this
way they
were just desperate for help went in and
asked a therapist to help them or ask
the psychiatrist tell them and they had
no idea
what they were getting themselves into
when they accepted a bottle
full of pills i've used this clip before
on my channel but this is really
instructive
in showing you what akathesia is what it
is about this that makes life
so unbearable this is a seemingly
beautiful intelligent young woman
who took a very low dose of a very
common
ssri antidepressant she's on a low dose
of alexa pro very commonly prescribed
and her life has been totally destroyed
and you know what's worse she has to
live with the awareness that these
horrible
physical symptoms that make it
impossible for her to sit down
impossible for her to stand still
impossible for her to play the piano
impossible for her to hold a pen and
write for any period of time impossible
for her to sit at the computer and
and type these unbelievably horrible
symptoms they're not
caused by damage to her nervous system
it's not like she had a car accident
that injured her neck or her spine
or her arms or her legs no she has to
live with the awareness that this is
because of brain damage
this is damage in her brain that
fundamentally impairs
how she feels how she thinks
how she's able to perceive and
understand the world
it fundamentally changes who she
is for the worse forever
if the symptoms themselves don't drive
you to suicide
the awareness of that it's very likely
to do so well jordan peterson knew
exactly what he was getting himself into
i've seen him on youtube in lectures
talking about his encouraging his own
patients to get on some of these same
pills and what do you know they ruined
his life in terms of brain damage they
have long-term consequences
none of you will be surprised to know
that even though this reached 6
500 viewers it reached the wrong viewers
this obviously was shared on
reddit groups of jordan peterson fans
and jordan peterson supporters
who just came by to you know
what would be the appropriate term just
came by to show their disapproval
of anyone daring to question their
demigod
look for me it's meaningful content i'm
glad i made the video
and for a few hundred or if possibly a
few thousand people
it would have been meaningful content
also but you cannot let the numbers
guide your future content creation you
need to be a very resolute very highly
motivated person
to make the content that's meaningful
for you and the content that's
meaningful for your audience
even if that audience is one that's
purely theoretical like in the same way
that i have to theorize
about what someone who is studying
chinese needs to hear like what's useful
for someone who's making the decision to
study chinese who's now in their first
year
of university studies learning chinese i
have to kind of in my own mind's eye
hypothesize who that audience member is
and what's good for them
you have to be strongly motivated to
move forward that way
and not to respond positively or
negatively to these
kinds of numbers here's a video on the
science behind
jordan peterson's addiction obviously
exactly the same
comments apply now here's one that's
misleading in a in a different way
number six on the list this is one of
many videos in a series i did
dealing with 21st century pornography
and the way in which the production of
that pornography
now intrudes into our personal lives and
our professional lives i might say
like never before so this video
was successful it's a very meaningful
video i've
you know i still recommend seeing it
today the problem is
every other video on that playlist was
unsuccessful
this one video alone which by the way
was censored by youtube to the maximum
extent
you have to be logged into your account
and over 18 years old
to to see this video it's also
demonetized and so on this is as
restricted as any video on youtube can
get
without actually being deleted by
youtube it nevertheless reached
seven 500 people the problem is a very
meaningful measure of success
would be that if the people who saw this
video watched at least
one or two others in this kind of series
of kind of documentaries and reflections
that i did
on this same meaningful and i think
important topic
and the reality is they did not a
totally different
example you know i i talked about uh
ethics and philosophy of a bizarre
highly sexualized science fiction
book series called gore and just one of
those
videos was successful so again if you're
putting in the time to create
say over an hour of content on a topic
like that spread out over a series of
videos that are maybe
20 minutes each you know the fact that
one of those videos got
thousands of views and as you know many
of those people only watch the first two
or three minutes that's how everything
is on youtube you have to accept that as
a content creator
that single success
actually indicates a much broader and
deeper failure
now this is an important issue i care
about the issue i care about reaching
a large audience on this issue about
this is an example of something where
i don't just want to reach a minority
within a minority of people
when i talk about pet ownership in
veganism
you know that's a really specific topic
for a really small number of people
there's some issues where i really
accept look the maximum size of the
audience for this is about 1 000 people
my critique of the animal rights
philosophy of gary francione
my whole discussions of that kind
completely accept
there's a small specialized audience
when you deal with a
social and political and ethical issue
of broad public importance like this
of course i really do aspire to reach a
much larger audience but the success of
this
one video actually just illustrates the
failure
of that series of videos as a whole
number five on this list
this is consistently the single most
successful video on my channel for many
years
and it is advice on how to write
the iq test used by the canadian
military
so it's not called an iq test but it's a
series of intelligence tests you have to
write in order to
enter the armed forces in canada this is
also a great example of how
youtube videos succeed many people
invent
theories about the algorithm about
hidden forces that decide your success
or failure on youtube no
to a greater extent than you can
possibly imagine
it's people sharing the link on other
websites on other forums whether that's
facebook or reddit or emailing each
other
that's what makes a video successful so
this video has been shared in the
different forums where people preparing
to enter the military or maybe people
failed the exam or trying to do it again
where people are giving each other
advice to say hey there is this video
talking about what you need to to get
ahead to study for this exam
that is the difference between success
and failure on youtube people have to
want to see the video and they have to
share the link with others
who are interested in seeing it i would
just add i have no contemporaries
making this kind of video i don't know
anyone who's really providing this kind
of practical advice
trying to make problem solving videos i
i just say i'm not saying there aren't
any on the internet anywhere but i've
never known anyone like that i don't
have any
colleagues contemporaries or
collaborators i can make videos with
who are motivated to make videos of that
kind and pursue success of that kind
number four yet another video
criticizing dr jordan peterson
this particular video i know was seen by
peterson himself and his daughter
probably many of my videos criticizing
him were
watched by jordan peterson and his
daughter they left comments they
probably shared the link to some extent
amongst their followers
and again although this video has a
meaningful and important message
the vast majority of people who watched
it have absolutely no
inclination to hear what that message is
the average duration of a view of this
video is
shockingly low at only one minute and 29
seconds so in this case very clearly
people were showing
up just to give it the thumbs down and
leave
so what is success on youtube
what is meaningful content creation for
you
everybody's going to come up with a
different answer but i can tell you
it ain't this the number three video of
the year
this one does not include my voice in
any way
it's a series of comedically edited
excerpts
from other people's channels titled
anissien one
the last of the beans were spilled etc
it's reached a remarkably large audience
again if you glance at the thumbs up to
thumbs down ratio etc
the vast majority of people were just
clicking on it to voice their
disapproval but again this just reflects
the culture of outrage on the internet
people wanted something to hate or
disagree with
and seemingly none of these people watch
this video in the context of
my numerous other highly philosophical
critiques and reflections on
the ethics of onision number two
a satirical video that i think most
people clicked on
not expecting satire and social
commentary
hitomi mochizuki the breast massage
video
i just thought that we would open this
conversation today
and talk about my personal deepest
hearts
desires and yearnings and things that
i'm trying to manifest into my life
i think it's so important to know what
you want because then you know what to
work for and know
what to look for and what signs to
listen to if you have
a clear idea of what you're seeking in
this life
if energy is neither created nor
destroyed everything you will ever want
is already here
it is simply a matter of choosing the
thoughts which will put you into
harmonious vibration
with that which you desire my soul
vibrates to the childlike freedom of
traveling to a new place
taking in all the colors smells
languages
and dropping into a meditation on the
senses everywhere i go
now i have no regrets as with
many other videos on this list i think
as with every single other video on this
list i can say
it is a meaningful video i did have a
point i did have a thesis that i stand
by
i still think it's worth seeing today
and even if it's satirical you can still
have a laugh at it today
but if you think i'm going to respond to
the success of
this video by making more videos of the
same kind
you are wrong and finally the number one
video of 2020 a video that i think my
regular viewers and fans
will not even remember
final cut bro caitlyn witcher
versus pro syndicate
a video that continues to be successful
this day a video that continues to get
thousands of views per month steadily
the moral of the story is this if you
are a stand-up comedian
you can respond to the laughter or
silence of the crowd
with youtube you are always facing the
you have to be highly motivated to make
meaningful content
for your own reasons and four outcomes
that you have clearly defined in your
own
mind you cannot be motivated by you
cannot respond to
the number of views per video
[Music]
you